
==================================================================================

Introduction
引言

The FPU, also known as a co-processor, used to be an option when the first PCs
came on the market. Modern PCs are now all provided with a co-processor. Although
the original PC-XT has evolved considerably over the years, the FPU itself has not
changed appreciably during that same period. Apart from a few minor instructions
having been added, the main improvement has been the extended range of some of the
existing instructions.

FPU，也叫做协处理器，作为早期PC的配件投入到市场。现代的PC都配置了一个协处理器。尽管
原始的PC-TX在数年内发生了巨大的演变，但FPU在同一时期内却变化甚微。除了增加几条次要
的指令外，主要的改进是对一些现存指令的扩充。


The entire set of assembler instructions for the FPU is relatively small and could
be memorized rapidly. Learning which parameter(s) can be used with each
instruction should take only slightly longer. The main difficulty is in developing
sound programming techniques to avoid some of the pitfalls peculiar to the FPU.

相对全部汇编指令集而言，FPU指令很少，且容易记住。要熟悉每条指令可以使用哪个(些)参
数，这可能需要一些时间。最大的困难是在开发过程中，也就是在编程中如何避开一些FPU特
有的陷阱。


The main purpose of this document is to show that using the FPU can be relatively
easy with minimal effort. Once this basics have been mastered, any computation
however complex can be performed.

用最少的付出就可以相对容易地使用FPU，是这份文档的目标。只要掌握了这些基础，无论多
复杂的计算都可以被实现。

The first chapter describes the internals of the FPU and how they function. Some
of this knowledge is an absolute necessity to use the FPU properly or help later
in understanding the outcome of some of the instructions. This is followed by a
chapter describing the various data types which can be used with some of the
instructions, including a detailed review of the floating point data formats.

第一章描述了FPU的内部部件，以及它们是如何工作的。要正确地使用FPU，或理解一些指令的
执行结果，那么其中一些知识是绝对需要掌握的。第二章介绍了不同指令可以使用的各种数据
类型，同时也包括对 浮点数据格式 的详细回顾。


The FPU instructions are then discussed in detail in the following chapters which
regroup them according to some "biased" criteria. Although some description of
each instruction is available in the Fphelp.hlp file provided with MASM32, a more
in-depth review is provided with more tangible examples of their usage.

在接下来的章节中，详细说明FPU指令，这些章节是依据一些“偏向性”的条件，进行重新编
组。虽然每条指令的说明都可以在MASM32提供的 Fphelp.hlp里找到，但本文档将提供一些更
深入和实际的指令使用例子。


The final chapter provides a fully example of a semi-complex computation.

最后一章是一个稍复杂的例子，其中有完整的注释。

It should be noted that this document has been prepared according to the syntax
used by MASM. Although most other assemblers/compilers should have a similar
syntax for the FPU instruction mnemonics, their syntax may differ for the
addressing mode of memory variables. It is also known that some of the
instructions used without explicit parameters are not supported by some of the
other assemblers/compilers.

值得注意的是，这份文档使用MASM的语法。虽然大多其他的汇编(编译)器在FPU指令上也有相
似的语法，但它们可能在内存变量的寻址方式上有所不同。也就是一些没有明显参数的指令，
不被其他汇编(编译)器所支持。


Any comment or suggestion aimed at improving this document will be given due
consideration. Those can be sent to:

任何有助于改善这份文档的评论或建议，将会被给予考虑。可发送邮件到：


rayfil@hotmail.com


Please use "Simply FPU" in the subject line to help its retrieval from the ever
increasing SPAM.

请在主题里使用"Simply FPU"，以帮助其检索不断增加的垃圾邮件。
